---
title: "GraalVM"
ring: adopt
quadrant: "tool"
tags: [java,backend]
---
The General Recursive Applicative and Algorithmic Language Virtual Machine (Graal VM) is a high-performance JDK distribution written for Java and other JVM languages, along with support for JavaScript, Ruby, Python, and several other languages. It provides a Native Image builder –  a tool to build native code from Java applications and package it together with the VM into a standalone executable. It is officially supported by the Spring Boot Maven and Gradle Plugin with a few exceptions.

GraalVM Native Images are standalone executables that can be generated by processing compiled Java applications ahead-of-time. Native Images generally have a smaller memory footprint and start faster than their JVM counterparts.
[Spring Boot Native](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/native-image.html)

### Key features:

- **Native Images** A native image is a standalone executable that includes the application classes, classes from its dependencies, runtime library classes, and statically linked native code from JDK. The JVM is packaged into the native image, eliminating the need for a Java Runtime Environment at the target system.

- **Ahead-of-Time Compilation** GraalVM compiles Java applications ahead of time into standalone binaries. These binaries are smaller, start up to 100x faster, provide peak performance with no warmup, and use less memory and CPU than applications running on a Java Virtual Machine (JVM)12.

- **Reduced Attack Surface** GraalVM reduces the attack surface of your application. It excludes unused classes, methods, and fields from the application binary. It restricts reflection and other dynamic Java language features to build time only. It does not load any unknown code at run time.

- **Support for Microservices Frameworks and Cloud Platforms** Popular microservices frameworks such as Spring Boot, Micronaut, Helidon, and Quarkus, and cloud platforms such as Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform, and Microsoft Azure all support GraalVM.

- **Profile-Guided Optimization and G1 Garbage Collector** With profile-guided optimization and the G1 (Garbage-First) garbage collector, you can get lower latency and on-par or better peak performance and throughput compared to applications running on a JVM.

- **Licensing and Support** GraalVM Community Edition is open-source software built from the sources available on GitHub and distributed under version 2 of the GNU General Public License with the “Classpath” Exception.

[GraalVM](https://www.graalvm.org/latest/docs/introduction/)

### Our use cases:

- (https://github.com/pagopa/rtd-ms-sender-auth) The Sender Auth is a µ-service responsible to store the association between sender code and api key, and the last version was deployed using a GraalVM. It's up and running, and here is possible to check the code.
